#summary A quick synopsis of what I'm currently working on
= Current Work =

_07/23/2010_ *The Render Engine v1.0 has been tagged!*  I'm going to take a short break before I get back into it and start on the next major release.

_07/21/2010_ Tonight I created a Billboard2DComponent which looks promising.  It is used with any render component to create a 2D billboard of the component's output and render that instead of always updating and drawing the actual rendered component.  This seems like it might be good for vector based objects such as the vector text renderer and the demo game Asteroids Evolution.  This isn't going to make it into v1.0, but it should follow shortly thereafter.  Speaking of which, barring any major bugs it looks like v1.0 will be out this Friday!

_07/16/2010_ In addition to other fixes, the particle engine has been revamped a bit and optimized to use native methods where possible.  Overall, it should run faster and cleaner than it did before.  v1.0 RC2 is looking to be "on track" for a release next week.  The bug which was causing Chrome to fail was a part of the particle engine and has since been fixed.

_07/14/2010_ *Tagged v1.0 RC1* There's one small enhancement that will show up in RC2 along with bugs identified in RC1 but, other than that, _no new features will be added_.  Everything that the engine has today, it will have in the v1.0 release.  Demos and tutorials are running from a b1.4 stabilized branch in the repository so that trunk updates won't impact them.

_07/13/2010_ I had to revert to revision 994 from the repository to get the examples running again.  I guess I should change the examples to run from a stable version, eh?  Anyways, the concurrency issue still exists in FF4.0b1 which is really driving me nuts.  I will continue to look at the issue and see if I can't get a resolution in there.  It's a shame because FF4.0b1's JS engine seems so promising.  Plus, a small bug has made itself known in Chrome...

_07/12/2010_ The bugs which appeared with FF4.0b1 go a lot deeper than I originally thought.  I am working to rectify the issue, but is has caused the examples to fail.  The issue stems from objects which are destroyed out-of-order.  If, for example, a component within a host object is destroyed and then the host object is destroyed which should clean up its components, the components will fail when being destroyed since they already has been destroyed.  It's a complicated issue and I hope to have a fix soon.

_07/12/2010_ Recently I've been noticing a few small bugs which are making the engine fail on both Chrome and Firefox 4.0b1.  I see issues where the engine _crashes_ (stops executing).  I'm excited to start integrating some of the newer features which both browsers support natively, but I need to get these simple crash bugs ironed out.