#summary A list of examples using The Render Engine
#labels Featured

=Engine Examples=

The Render Engine is a fully featured engine which can be used to write both games and to write applications which are graphics intensive.  Below are examples of the engine in use.  All of the following examples were written using The Render Engine and, as you can tell, are the old "eat your own dog food" type of examples.

==Asteroids Clone==

This example is a clone of Asteroids by Atari.  There are two modes in which the game runs.  The first is a clone of the original, mostly complete, with sounds and vector rendering.  It's not meant to be a complete game, but more how to make the engine work.  The second has more visual effects and some simple particle animations.  Both games run from the same source.

   * [http://renderengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/demos/spaceroids/index.html?metrics=true Asteroids clone]
   * [http://renderengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/demos/spaceroids/index.html?metrics=true&evolved=true Asteroids clone - Evolved]

==Ball Physics, Sprites, and the Wii==

The next game, if it can be called that, is a test I put together to get the engine running on the Wii.  It not only runs on the Wii, but on PCs and Macs.  On the Wii, just point and click the "A" button.  In addition, this is the first test of the "ball physics" which have since been converted to a collider component.

   * [http://renderengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/demos/wii_test/index.html?metrics=true&context=1 Bounce the Ball]

==The Sprite Editor==

In addition to games, The Render Engine can be (and, as you can see with this example, is) used to create applications.  In this case I'm using it to develop the Sprite Editor.  Eventually, this will be a part of the online release for the creation of sprites in your games.

   * [http://renderengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tools/sprite_editor/index.html?metrics=true Sprite Editor alpha]


==Text Rendering Capabilities==

The following is a quick test I put together to test text rendering with the three supported renderers.  If your browser doesn't support natively rendering fonts to the canvas, you'll only see the first two (Vector and Bitmap).  In most cases, the bitmap fonts are a decent alternative to rendering text to the canvas.

   * [http://renderengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/test/textrender/index.html?metrics=true Vector, bitmap, and native font rendering]

==The Bitmap Font Editor==

Another tool that will be provided with the engine will dissect a bitmap image of a font for use with the canvas context.  It currently analyzes a bitmap for breaks between the characters, and will eventually generate a font definition.  When it's completed, the editor will allow the user to create, adjust, and remove dividers.  Currently, the editor is in the early development stages and tests the character analysis portion.

   * [http://renderengine.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/tools/font_editor/index.html?metrics=true Font Editor alpha]

There will be more examples, in the future, which will appear on this page.  If you have any good examples of the engine in use, let me know and I'll include them here as well!